Adds iframe lazy-loading (#3536)
GoogleChrome/web.dev: src/site/content/en/blog/iframe-lazy-loading/index.md

---
layout: post
title: It's time to lazy-load offscreen iframes!
subhead: Browser-level native lazy-loading for iframes is here
authors:
  - addyosmani
date: 2020-07-19

> updated: 2020-07-20

Author: Sure. Would you be comfortable with this landing/deploying early on Friday? I'd like to get this out before the end of the week as we have other performance announcements coming next week (elsewhere, Chromium) that I'd like to avoid keeping too close together if possible.

> updated: 2020-07-20

Reviewer: Friday is what I had in mind.

> updated: 2020-07-20

Author: SGTM!

{% Aside %}
  `auto` is currently a non-standard value, but is the default in Chrome today. Chrome intends on bringing a proposal for this value to the standards table.
{% endAside %}

Using the `loading` attribute on iframes works as follows:

```html
<!-- Lazy-load the iframe -->
<iframe src="https://example.com" 
        loading="lazy" 
        width="600" 
        height="400"></iframe>

<!-- Eagerly load the iframe -->
<iframe src="https://example.com" 
        width="600" 
        height="400"></iframe>

<!-- or use loading="eager" to out of automatic 
lazy-loading in Lite Mode -->
<iframe src="https://example.com" 
        loading="eager" 
        width="600" 
        height="400"></iframe>
```

Not specifying the attribute at all will have the same impact as explicitly eagerly loading the resource, except for [Lite Mode](https://blog.chromium.org/2019/04/data-saver-is-now-lite-mode.html) users, where Chrome will use the `auto` value to decide whether it should be lazy-loaded.

If you need to _dynamically_ create iframes via JavaScript, setting `iframe.loading = 'lazy'` on the element is also [supported](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/chromium/issues/detail?id=993273):

> ```html/2

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```js/2
```

---
layout: post
title: It's time to lazy-load offscreen iframes!
subhead: Browser-level native lazy-loading for iframes is here
authors:
  - addyosmani

> date: 2020-07-22

Reviewer: ```suggestion
date: 2020-07-24
```

> date: 2020-07-21
> updated: 2020-07-21

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
date: 2020-07-22
#updated: 2020-07-21
```

hero: hero.png
alt: Phone outline with loading image and assets
description: |
  This post covers the loading attribute and how it can be used
  to control the loading of iframes.
tags:
  - blog # blog is a required tag for the article to show up in the blog.
  - performance
---

[Native lazy-loading for images](/native-lazy-loading) landed in Chrome 76 via
the `loading` attribute and later came to Firefox. We are happy to share that
**native lazy-loading for iframes** is now
[standardized](https://github.com/whatwg/html/pull/5579) and is also 

> supported in Chrome. 

Author: Sure. Chromium is currently the only browser that supports native iframe lazy-loading.

> supported in Chrome. 

Reviewer: Maybe say something like Chrome and other Chromium browsers.

```html/1
<iframe src="https://example.com"
        loading="lazy"
        width=600
        height=400></iframe>
```

**Native lazy-loading of iframes defers offscreen iframes from being loaded
until the user scrolls near them. This saves data, speeds up the loading of

> other parts of the page, and reduces memory usage.**

Author: This doesn't (imo) make sense as an aside. It's a body content summary of what the feature does. Is your concern that the content is bolded?

> other parts of the page, and reduces memory usage.**

Reviewer: Yes.

> other parts of the page, and reduces memory usage.**

Author: Okay. In the upcoming commits I will drop this formatting. Thanks for the sanity check

> other parts of the page, and reduces memory usage.**

Author: Bolding removed in https://github.com/GoogleChrome/web.dev/pull/3536/commits/d28e1e80be0072d4e52bf59fa01d500947240280

> This [demo](https://lazy-load.netlify.app/iframes/) of `<iframe loading=lazy>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This [demo](https://lazy-load.netlify.app/iframes/) of `<iframe loading=lazy>`
```

<iframe src="https://example.com" 
        width="600" 
        height="400"></iframe>

<!-- or use loading="eager" to out of automatic 
lazy-loading in Lite Mode -->
<iframe src="https://example.com" 
        loading="eager" 
        width="600" 
        height="400"></iframe>
```

Not specifying the attribute at all will have the same impact as explicitly
eagerly loading the resource, except for [Lite
Mode](https://blog.chromium.org/2019/04/data-saver-is-now-lite-mode.html)
users, where Chrome will use the `auto` value to decide whether it should be
lazy-loaded.

If you need to _dynamically_ create iframes via JavaScript, setting
`iframe.loading = 'lazy'` on the element is also
[supported](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/chromium/issues/detail?id=993273):

```js/2
var iframe = document.createElement('iframe');
iframe.src = 'https://example.com';
iframe.loading = 'lazy';
document.body.appendChild(iframe);
```

#### iframe-specific lazy-loading behavior

The loading attribute affects iframes differently than images, depending on
whether the iframe is hidden. (Hidden iframes are often used for analytics or
communication purposes.) Chrome uses the following criteria to determine

> whether an iframe is hidden:

Reviewer 3: Clarify that this applies to both `loading=lazy` and `loading=auto`. (Demo: http://software.hixie.ch/utilities/js/live-dom-viewer/saved/8306)

I think these heuristics should either be standardized or removed (for `loading=lazy`). cc @domfarolino

Author: Roger. Will add a note.

> *   The iframe's width and height are `4px` or smaller.

Reviewer 3: This seems to be the border box dimensions.

YouTube video embed">
</figure>

{% Aside %}
If you are looking for more efficient ways to load YouTube embeds, you may be
interested in the [YouTube lite
component](https://github.com/paulirish/lite-youtube-embed).
{% endAside %}

**Lazy-loading Instagram embeds (saves >100KB gzipped on initial load):**

Instagram embeds provide a block of markup and a script, which injects an
iframe into your page. Lazy-loading this iframe avoids having to load all of
the script necessary for the embed. Given such embeds are often displayed below
the viewport in most articles, this seems like a reasonable candidate for
native lazy-loading of their iframe.

**Lazy-loading Spotify embeds (saves 514KB on initial load):**

```html
<iframe src="https://open.spotify.com/embed/album/1DFixLWuPkv3KT3TnV35m3" 
        loading="lazy"
        width="300" 
        height="380" 
        frameborder="0" 
        allowtransparency="true" 
        allow="encrypted-media"></iframe>
```

Although the above embeds illustrate the potential benefits to lazy-loading
iframes for media content, there's the potential to also see these benefits for
ads.  

> ### Case study: Natively lazy-loading the Facebook Like button

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
### Case study: Natively lazy-loading the Facebook's social plugins
```

Facebook's _social plugins_ allow developers to embed Facebook content in their
web pages. There's a number of these plugins offered, such as embedded posts,
photos, videos, comments… The most popular is the [Like
plugin](https://developers.facebook.com/docs/plugins/like-button/) - a button
that shows a count of who has "liked" the page. By default, embedding the Like
plugin in a webpage (using the FB JSSDK) pulls in ~215KB of resources, 197KB of
which is JavaScript. In many cases, the plugin may appear at the end of an
article or near the end of a page, so loading it eagerly when it's offscreen
may be suboptimal.

<figure class="w-figure">

> <img src="./fblike.png" alt="Facebook Like Button">

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  <img class="w-screenshot" src="./fblike.png" alt="Facebook Like Button">
```

</figure>

Thanks to engineer Stoyan Stefanov, [all of Facebook's social plugins now
support native iframe
lazy-loading](https://developers.facebook.com/docs/plugins/like-button#settings).
Developers who opt in to lazy-loading via the plugins' `data-lazy`
configuration will now be able to avoid it loading until the user scrolls
nearby. This enables the embed to still fully function for users that need it,
while offering data-savings for those who are not scrolling all the way down a
page. We are hopeful this is the first of many embeds to explore native iframe
lazy-loading in production.

### Wait, can't browsers just automatically lazy-load offscreen iframes?

They certainly can. In Chrome 77, Chrome added support for automatically
natively lazy-loading offscreen images and iframes when a user has opted into
[Lite Mode](https://blog.chromium.org/2019/04/data-saver-is-now-lite-mode.html)
(Data Saver mode) in Chrome for Android. 

Lite Mode users are commonly in regions of the world where network connection

> quality and data savings plans are not the greatest. Every byte matters and so

Reviewer 3: Should it be "Lite Mode is commonly used in ..." and remove "savings"?

Author: That's a good suggestion! I'll update to account for this shortly.

lazy-loading iframes has the potential to make a meaningful difference for
these users.

Origins can detect what percentage of their traffic is coming from Lite Mode
users by checking the `navigator.connection.saveData` JavaScript API.

### Can I lazy-load iframes cross-browser? Yes

It is also possible to lazy-load offscreen iframes using the
[lazysizes](/use-lazysizes-to-lazyload-images/) library. 

This may be desirable if you:

*   require more custom lazy-loading thresholds than what native lazy-loading
currently offers

> *   are implementing lazy-loading cross-browser

Reviewer: Don't make cross-browser sound like a choice. There's one web platform.

Author: Do you have a suggestion to reword this? The nuance we are trying to convey is:

- Native lazy-loading offers lazy-loading in a way that can be applied as a progressive enhancement. iframes with `loading=lazy` will continue to load per normal in browsers without native lazy-loading support
- Folks that want to have this behavior cross-browser until it is widely supported have options like JS libraries.

Perhaps I can capture that nuance better here.

Reviewer: The way you have said it just now looks pretty good. Using the phrase 'progressive enhancement' presumes support for common platform.

Author: Cool! Updated in https://github.com/GoogleChrome/web.dev/pull/3536/commits/d377edb419665320b57fe4052948f48407e3ce2a

```html/3
<script src="lazysizes.min.js" async></script>

<iframe frameborder="0"
	  class="lazyload"
    allowfullscreen=""
    data-src="//www.youtube.com/embed/ZfV-aYdU4uE">
</iframe>
```

> If you would like to conditionally use native lazy-loading if a browser
> supports it or fetch and use lazysizes if it isn't, the following pattern
> should work:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the following pattern to feature detect lazy-loading and fetch
lazysizes when it's not available:
```

```html/2
<iframe frameborder="0"
	  class="lazyload"
    loading="lazy"
    allowfullscreen=""
    data-src="//www.youtube.com/embed/ZfV-aYdU4uE">
</iframe>

<script>
  if ('loading' in HTMLIFrameElement.prototype) {
    const iframes = document.querySelectorAll('iframe[loading="lazy"]');

    iframes.forEach(iframe => {
      iframe.src = iframe.dataset.src;
    });

  } else {
    // Dynamically import the LazySizes library
    const script = document.createElement('script');
    script.src =
      'https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/lazysizes/5.2.2/lazysizes.min.js';
    document.body.appendChild(script);
  }

</script>
```

### Conclusion

> Baking in native support for lazy-loading iframes can make it significantly

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Baking in native support for lazy-loading iframes makes it significantly
```
